**What is the flow of execution?** It is the order in which statements are executed, which ensures that a function is defined before its first use. 
**What is an algorithm?** A general process for solving a category of problems
**What is an argument?** A value provided to a function when the function is called. This value is assigned to the corresponding parameter in the function. 
**What is a composition?** Using an expression as part of a larger expression, or a statement as part of a larger statement 
**What does it mean deterministic in programming languages?** Pertaining to a program that does the same thing each time it runs, given the same inputs.  
**What is a fruitful function?** A function that return a value
**What is a function?** A named sequence of statements that perform some useful operation. Functions may or may not take arguments and may or may not produce a result 
**What is a function call?** A statement that executes a function. It consists of the function name followed by an argument list. 
**What is a function definition?** A statement that creates a new function, specifying its name, parameters, and the statements it executes. 
**What is a function object?** A value created by a function. The name of the function is a variable that refers to a function object. 
**What is a header?** The first line of a function definition
**What is an import statement?** A statement that reads a module file and creates a module object 
**What is a parameter?** A name used inside a function to refer to the value passed as an argument
**What is a pseudorandom?** Pertaining to a sequence of number that appear to be random, but are generated by a deterministic program
**What is a return value?** The result of a function. If a function call is used as an expression, there return value is the value of the expression.
**What is a void function?** A functions that does not return a value
**What is the difference between an expression and a statement?** While statements conform the different lines in a program, an expression, being a statement itself, is the evaluation of a certain expression which results in a value. 