
# How to Design Functions

## Learning Goals 

- Be able to use the How to Design Functions (HtDF) recipe to design functions that operate on primitive data
- Be able ro read a complete function desgin and identify its different elements
- Be able to evaluate the different elements for clarity, simplicity and consistency with each other
- Be able to evaluate the entire design for how well it solves the given problem

# HtDF Recipe

In real life, HtDP is not used, given that makes easy problems harder. The opposite effect that has on harder problems making them easier.

## Recipie

To know that to write at one step of the recipe, look at what you wrote at previous steps of the recipe!

1. Signature, purpose, stub
2. Examples (wrapped in check-expect)
3. Inventory - template & constants
4. Code body
5. Test and debug

The hell is a stub? A controllable replacement for an existing dependency (or collaborator) in the system. By using a stub, you can test your code without dealing with the dependecy directly. 

### Meaning of Each Step

#### Signature, purpose, stub

- Signature: Declares the type of data that the function consumes and produces. (Ex. Int -> Int)
- Purpose: It is a 1 line description of what the function produces in terms of what it consumes
    - The purpose needs to say more than the signature
    - It needs to be short (1 line)
- Stub: Sort of a scaffolding. It helps with some parts of the code. It has:
    - A correct function name
    - A correct number of parameters
    - Produces dummy result of correct type
    - Eventually it will be deleted or commented out

#### Examples (Wrapped in check-expect)

- Exaples help us understand what the function must do.
- Multiple examples to illustrate behavior
- Wrapping in check-expect means they will also serve as unit tests for the completed function

#### Inventory - template & constants
The body of the template is the outline of the function. At the beginning the body of the template would be ( ... x ) where x is the parameter to the function.

#### Code Body

- Use everything written before to know how to complete the function
- sometimes helps to elaborate examples to show h ow the expected value could have been produced.

#### Test and Debug


##### Practice


;; String -> String     Signature
;; Adds '!' to the end of the given string     Purpose

( define (yell string) "" ); Stub

(check-expect (yell 'laotze') 'laotze!')
(check-expect (yell 'This is a phrase') 'This is a phrase!')

( define (yell string) ; Template
    (... string) )

( define (yell string)
    (string-append '!' string) )


#### Practice 2
- I should impose a restriction upon the argument; it must be a real positive number or 0 to work.

;;Number -> Number    Signature
;; Takes the length of a side of a square and returns the area of it.   Purpose (specific about what's going on)

( define (area side) 0 );   Stub

(check-expect (area 4) 16)
(check-expect (area 6.4) (* 6.4 6.4))

( define (area side) ; Template, then body 
    (* side side))



##### Practice 3

;; Image -> Natural     Signature (Must use the most specific type always)
;; Takes an image as an argument, and then returns the area by multiplying its width and height       Purpose

;(define (image-area img) img)

(check-expect (image-area img) (* 100 200))
(check-expect (image-area img) (* 150.5 600.9)) Bad example, given that images use pixels, and pixels are not expressed in floating point numbers.

( define image-area img 
    (...img))


( define image-area img 
    (* (image-width img) (image-heigth img)))

##### Practice 4





## When Things Go Wrong

- When the program fails; Scan over the design elements looking for inconsistencies. Does the purpose match the signature? Do the tests match the signature and the purpose? and so on.
- If the test fails, the reason might be;
    - The function definition is wrong
    - The test is wrong
    - They are both wrong


Waterfall methodology: a sequential development process that flows like a waterfall through all phases of a project, with each phase completely wrapping up before the next phase begins. 


